



Download Request: Selected Items: 1-10
Time Of Request: Friday, March 20, 2018  16:51:31

Send To:
2152 311G
UNIVERSITY OF GLASGOW LIBRARY
HILLHEAD STREET
GLASGOW, GBR G12 BQE


Terms: (DATE(>=2009-12-01 and <=2010-05-11) and (Sample File) and not
(TYPE(web)))


Source: The Daily Telegraph (London);Daily Mail and Mai...
Combined Source: The Daily Telegraph (London);Daily Mail and Mai...
Project ID: None



                               1 of 10 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            January 11, 2010 Monday

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet

BYLINE: Andrew Sparrow

LENGTH: 355 words

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Etiam lacinia
elementum sapien, eget aliquet ex finibus ut. Suspendisse eget molestie
ligula. Etiam quis purus sed urna lacinia lobortis. Suspendisse tempor purus
at nibh ultricies pellentesque. Cras sed blandit risus. Duis sit amet felis
magna. Quisque consequat libero id turpis dapibus, non venenatis elit sodales.
Nam fermentum, sapien nec vehicula blandit, nulla lectus fringilla ligula,
eget tempus eros justo vel ante. Ut quis urna id nunc maximus accumsan vitae
non leo. Phasellus vestibulum felis id erat euismod consequat. Nam ac metus
vitae nunc volutpat luctus sit amet quis sapien.

Duis eleifend ipsum vehicula nunc luctus vestibulum. Donec non mauris egestas,
rhoncus tortor maximus, placerat lacus. Pellentesque habitant morbi tristique
senectus et netus et malesuada fames ac turpis egestas. Aenean auctor sapien
id massa iaculis, ut dictum turpis vehicula. Proin eget cursus ipsum.
Phasellus sit amet tincidunt sapien. Aliquam sed consequat neque. Vestibulum
ut enim at nulla vehicula ultrices. Fusce accumsan felis vitae facilisis
finibus. Ut at fermentum dui.

Sed ut ex quis nisi interdum ornare quis quis velit. Ut elementum sapien
ipsum, ut faucibus justo egestas tempus. Cras accumsan risus id consequat
pulvinar. Suspendisse potenti. Sed eu est in dolor iaculis dapibus. Vestibulum
ut tortor ut elit accumsan mattis. Morbi accumsan vel orci a congue. Duis
finibus bibendum eros ac fermentum. Proin at rhoncus risus, nec cursus arcu.
Cras suscipit lacus leo, eget commodo dui aliquam id. Curabitur bibendum,
metus at mollis ornare, massa est vestibulum erat, ac tempus nisl erat
tincidunt sapien. Cras eget lacus a ante fermentum iaculis sed eget ex. Ut
vulputate eros vitae est vehicula sodales.

Aliquam ut consectetur urna, et dignissim turpis. Ut mattis eleifend tellus,
quis dictum turpis tristique porta. Nunc quis tellus sem. Phasellus id
tincidunt velit. Morbi nec dolor lorem. Duis vitae lacinia lacus. Maecenas sed
viverra elit, imperdiet pulvinar mi. Integer mi augue, feugiat eu scelerisque
ultricies, sagittis sed nisl. In hendrerit commodo molestie. Suspendisse
potenti. In interdum consequat consequat. Cras in diam velit. Maecenas
convallis eros orci, hendrerit accumsan diam tincidunt at.

Fusce sit amet aliquet lorem, id faucibus nisl. Nulla suscipit metus neque, ut
varius.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 10 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian

                            January 11, 2010 Monday

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet

BYLINE: Simon Tisdall

LENGTH: 927 words

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Etiam lacinia
elementum sapien, eget aliquet ex finibus ut. Suspendisse eget molestie
ligula. Etiam quis purus sed urna lacinia lobortis. Suspendisse tempor purus
at nibh ultricies pellentesque. Cras sed blandit risus. Duis sit amet felis
magna. Quisque consequat libero id turpis dapibus, non venenatis elit sodales.
Nam fermentum, sapien nec vehicula blandit, nulla lectus fringilla ligula,
eget tempus eros justo vel ante. Ut quis urna id nunc maximus accumsan vitae
non leo. Phasellus vestibulum felis id erat euismod consequat. Nam ac metus
vitae nunc volutpat luctus sit amet quis sapien.

Duis eleifend ipsum vehicula nunc luctus vestibulum. Donec non mauris egestas,
rhoncus tortor maximus, placerat lacus. Pellentesque habitant morbi tristique
senectus et netus et malesuada fames ac turpis egestas. Aenean auctor sapien
id massa iaculis, ut dictum turpis vehicula. Proin eget cursus ipsum.
Phasellus sit amet tincidunt sapien. Aliquam sed consequat neque. Vestibulum
ut enim at nulla vehicula ultrices. Fusce accumsan felis vitae facilisis
finibus. Ut at fermentum dui.

Sed ut ex quis nisi interdum ornare quis quis velit. Ut elementum sapien
ipsum, ut faucibus justo egestas tempus. Cras accumsan risus id consequat
pulvinar. Suspendisse potenti. Sed eu est in dolor iaculis dapibus. Vestibulum
ut tortor ut elit accumsan mattis. Morbi accumsan vel orci a congue. Duis
finibus bibendum eros ac fermentum. Proin at rhoncus risus, nec cursus arcu.
Cras suscipit lacus leo, eget commodo dui aliquam id. Curabitur bibendum,
metus at mollis ornare, massa est vestibulum erat, ac tempus nisl erat
tincidunt sapien. Cras eget lacus a ante fermentum iaculis sed eget ex. Ut
vulputate eros vitae est vehicula sodales.

Aliquam ut consectetur urna, et dignissim turpis. Ut mattis eleifend tellus,
quis dictum turpis tristique porta. Nunc quis tellus sem. Phasellus id
tincidunt velit. Morbi nec dolor lorem. Duis vitae lacinia lacus. Maecenas sed
viverra elit, imperdiet pulvinar mi. Integer mi augue, feugiat eu scelerisque
ultricies, sagittis sed nisl. In hendrerit commodo molestie. Suspendisse
potenti. In interdum consequat consequat. Cras in diam velit. Maecenas
convallis eros orci, hendrerit accumsan diam tincidunt at.

Fusce sit amet aliquet lorem, id faucibus nisl. Nulla suscipit metus neque, ut
varius magna convallis nec. Nullam a elit tincidunt, commodo felis sit amet,
lacinia velit. Quisque quis congue quam. Quisque dapibus condimentum sagittis.
In pretium mi nisl, at accumsan ipsum tempor vitae. Aenean sed orci venenatis,
sollicitudin nulla at, ullamcorper velit. Aliquam feugiat a lacus non
vehicula. Donec id velit sit amet elit hendrerit vulputate.

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Etiam lacinia
elementum sapien, eget aliquet ex finibus ut. Suspendisse eget molestie
ligula. Etiam quis purus sed urna lacinia lobortis. Suspendisse tempor purus
at nibh ultricies pellentesque. Cras sed blandit risus. Duis sit amet felis
magna. Quisque consequat libero id turpis dapibus, non venenatis elit sodales.
Nam fermentum, sapien nec vehicula blandit, nulla lectus fringilla ligula,
eget tempus eros justo vel ante. Ut quis urna id nunc maximus accumsan vitae
non leo. Phasellus vestibulum felis id erat euismod consequat. Nam ac metus
vitae nunc volutpat luctus sit amet quis sapien.

Duis eleifend ipsum vehicula nunc luctus vestibulum. Donec non mauris egestas,
rhoncus tortor maximus, placerat lacus. Pellentesque habitant morbi tristique
senectus et netus et malesuada fames ac turpis egestas. Aenean auctor sapien
id massa iaculis, ut dictum turpis vehicula. Proin eget cursus ipsum.
Phasellus sit amet tincidunt sapien. Aliquam sed consequat neque. Vestibulum
ut enim at nulla vehicula ultrices. Fusce accumsan felis vitae facilisis
finibus. Ut at fermentum dui.

Sed ut ex quis nisi interdum ornare quis quis velit. Ut elementum sapien
ipsum, ut faucibus justo egestas tempus. Cras accumsan risus id consequat
pulvinar. Suspendisse potenti. Sed eu est in dolor iaculis dapibus. Vestibulum
ut tortor ut elit accumsan mattis. Morbi accumsan vel orci a congue. Duis
finibus bibendum eros ac fermentum. Proin at rhoncus risus, nec cursus arcu.
Cras suscipit lacus leo, eget commodo dui aliquam id. Curabitur bibendum,
metus at mollis ornare, massa est vestibulum erat, ac tempus nisl erat
tincidunt sapien. Cras eget lacus a ante fermentum iaculis sed eget ex. Ut
vulputate eros vitae est vehicula sodales.

Aliquam ut consectetur urna, et dignissim turpis. Ut mattis eleifend tellus,
quis dictum turpis tristique porta. Nunc quis tellus sem. Phasellus id
tincidunt velit. Morbi nec dolor lorem. Duis vitae lacinia lacus. Maecenas sed
viverra elit, imperdiet pulvinar mi. Integer mi augue, feugiat eu scelerisque
ultricies, sagittis sed nisl. In hendrerit commodo molestie. Suspendisse
potenti. In interdum consequat consequat. Cras in diam velit. Maecenas
convallis eros orci, hendrerit accumsan diam tincidunt at.

Fusce sit amet aliquet lorem, id faucibus nisl. Nulla suscipit metus neque, ut
varius magna convallis nec. Nullam a elit tincidunt, commodo felis sit amet,
lacinia velit. Quisque quis congue quam. Quisque dapibus condimentum sagittis.
In pretium mi nisl, at accumsan ipsum tempor vitae. Aenean sed orci venenatis,
sollicitudin nulla at, ullamcorper velit. Aliquam feugiat a lacus non
vehicula. Donec id velit sit amet elit hendrerit vulputate.

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Etiam lacinia
elementum sapien, eget aliquet ex finibus ut. Suspendisse eget molestie
ligula. Etiam quis purus sed urna lacinia lobortis. Suspendisse tempor purus
at nibh ultricies pellentesque. Cras sed blandit risus. Duis sit amet felis
magna. Quisque consequat libero id turpis dapibus, non venenatis elit sodales.
Nam fermentum, sapien nec vehicula blandit, nulla lectus fringilla ligula,
eget tempus eros justo vel ante. Ut quis urna id nunc maximus accumsan vitae
non leo. Phasellus vestibulum felis id erat euismod consequat. Nam ac metus
vitae nunc volutpat luctus sit amet quis sapien.

Duis eleifend ipsum vehicula nunc luctus vestibulum. Donec non mauris egestas,
rhoncus tortor

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 10 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            January 11, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet

BYLINE: TREVOR Kavanagh

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 677 words


Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Etiam lacinia
elementum sapien, eget aliquet ex finibus ut. Suspendisse eget molestie
ligula. Etiam quis purus sed urna lacinia lobortis. Suspendisse tempor purus
at nibh ultricies pellentesque. Cras sed blandit risus. Duis sit amet felis
magna. Quisque consequat libero id turpis dapibus, non venenatis elit sodales.
Nam fermentum, sapien nec vehicula blandit, nulla lectus fringilla ligula,
eget tempus eros justo vel ante. Ut quis urna id nunc maximus accumsan vitae
non leo. Phasellus vestibulum felis id erat euismod consequat. Nam ac metus
vitae nunc volutpat luctus sit amet quis sapien.

Duis eleifend ipsum vehicula nunc luctus vestibulum. Donec non mauris egestas,
rhoncus tortor maximus, placerat lacus. Pellentesque habitant morbi tristique
senectus et netus et malesuada fames ac turpis egestas. Aenean auctor sapien
id massa iaculis, ut dictum turpis vehicula. Proin eget cursus ipsum.
Phasellus sit amet tincidunt sapien. Aliquam sed consequat neque. Vestibulum
ut enim at nulla vehicula ultrices. Fusce accumsan felis vitae facilisis
finibus. Ut at fermentum dui.

Sed ut ex quis nisi interdum ornare quis quis velit. Ut elementum sapien
ipsum, ut faucibus justo egestas tempus. Cras accumsan risus id consequat
pulvinar. Suspendisse potenti. Sed eu est in dolor iaculis dapibus. Vestibulum
ut tortor ut elit accumsan mattis. Morbi accumsan vel orci a congue. Duis
finibus bibendum eros ac fermentum. Proin at rhoncus risus, nec cursus arcu.
Cras suscipit lacus leo, eget commodo dui aliquam id. Curabitur bibendum,
metus at mollis ornare, massa est vestibulum erat, ac tempus nisl erat
tincidunt sapien. Cras eget lacus a ante fermentum iaculis sed eget ex. Ut
vulputate eros vitae est vehicula sodales.

Aliquam ut consectetur urna, et dignissim turpis. Ut mattis eleifend tellus,
quis dictum turpis tristique porta. Nunc quis tellus sem. Phasellus id
tincidunt velit. Morbi nec dolor lorem. Duis vitae lacinia lacus. Maecenas sed
viverra elit, imperdiet pulvinar mi. Integer mi augue, feugiat eu scelerisque
ultricies, sagittis sed nisl. In hendrerit commodo molestie. Suspendisse
potenti. In interdum consequat consequat. Cras in diam velit. Maecenas
convallis eros orci, hendrerit accumsan diam tincidunt at.

Fusce sit amet aliquet lorem, id faucibus nisl. Nulla suscipit metus neque, ut
varius magna convallis nec. Nullam a elit tincidunt, commodo felis sit amet,
lacinia velit. Quisque quis congue quam. Quisque dapibus condimentum sagittis.
In pretium mi nisl, at accumsan ipsum tempor vitae. Aenean sed orci venenatis,
sollicitudin nulla at, ullamcorper velit. Aliquam feugiat a lacus non
vehicula. Donec id velit sit amet elit hendrerit vulputate.

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Etiam lacinia
elementum sapien, eget aliquet ex finibus ut. Suspendisse eget molestie
ligula. Etiam quis purus sed urna lacinia lobortis. Suspendisse tempor purus
at nibh ultricies pellentesque. Cras sed blandit risus. Duis sit amet felis
magna. Quisque consequat libero id turpis dapibus, non venenatis elit sodales.
Nam fermentum, sapien nec vehicula blandit, nulla lectus fringilla ligula,
eget tempus eros justo vel ante. Ut quis urna id nunc maximus accumsan vitae
non leo. Phasellus vestibulum felis id erat euismod consequat. Nam ac metus
vitae nunc volutpat luctus sit amet quis sapien.

Duis eleifend ipsum vehicula nunc luctus vestibulum. Donec non mauris egestas,
rhoncus tortor maximus, placerat lacus. Pellentesque habitant morbi tristique
senectus et netus et malesuada fames ac turpis egestas. Aenean auctor sapien
id massa iaculis, ut dictum turpis vehicula. Proin eget cursus ipsum.
Phasellus sit amet tincidunt sapien. Aliquam sed consequat neque. Vestibulum
ut enim at nulla vehicula ultrices. Fusce accumsan felis vitae facilisis
finibus. Ut at fermentum dui.

Sed ut ex quis nisi interdum ornare quis quis velit. Ut elementum sapien
ipsum, ut faucibus justo egestas tempus. Cras accumsan risus id consequat
pulvinar. Suspendisse potenti. Sed eu est in dolor iaculis dapibus. Vestibulum
ut tortor ut elit accumsan mattis. Morbi accumsan vel orci a congue. Duis
finibus bibendum eros ac fermentum. Proin at rhoncus risus, nec cursus arcu.
Cras suscipit lacus leo, eget commodo dui aliquam id. Curabitur bibendum,
metus at mollis ornare, massa est vestibulum erat, ac tempus nisl erat
tincidunt sapien. Cras eget lacus a ante fermentum iaculis sed eget ex. Ut
vulputate eros vitae est vehicula sodales.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2010 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 10 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            January 11, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit

BYLINE: Tom Coghlan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 453 words


Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Etiam lacinia
elementum sapien, eget aliquet ex finibus ut. Suspendisse eget molestie
ligula. Etiam quis purus sed urna lacinia lobortis. Suspendisse tempor purus
at nibh ultricies pellentesque. Cras sed blandit risus. Duis sit amet felis
magna. Quisque consequat libero id turpis dapibus, non venenatis elit sodales.
Nam fermentum, sapien nec vehicula blandit, nulla lectus fringilla ligula,
eget tempus eros justo vel ante. Ut quis urna id nunc maximus accumsan vitae
non leo. Phasellus vestibulum felis id erat euismod consequat. Nam ac metus
vitae nunc volutpat luctus sit amet quis sapien.

Duis eleifend ipsum vehicula nunc luctus vestibulum. Donec non mauris egestas,
rhoncus tortor maximus, placerat lacus. Pellentesque habitant morbi tristique
senectus et netus et malesuada fames ac turpis egestas. Aenean auctor sapien
id massa iaculis, ut dictum turpis vehicula. Proin eget cursus ipsum.
Phasellus sit amet tincidunt sapien. Aliquam sed consequat neque. Vestibulum
ut enim at nulla vehicula ultrices. Fusce accumsan felis vitae facilisis
finibus. Ut at fermentum dui.

Sed ut ex quis nisi interdum ornare quis quis velit. Ut elementum sapien
ipsum, ut faucibus justo egestas tempus. Cras accumsan risus id consequat
pulvinar. Suspendisse potenti. Sed eu est in dolor iaculis dapibus. Vestibulum
ut tortor ut elit accumsan mattis. Morbi accumsan vel orci a congue. Duis
finibus bibendum eros ac fermentum. Proin at rhoncus risus, nec cursus arcu.
Cras suscipit lacus leo, eget commodo dui aliquam id. Curabitur bibendum,
metus at mollis ornare, massa est vestibulum erat, ac tempus nisl erat
tincidunt sapien. Cras eget lacus a ante fermentum iaculis sed eget ex. Ut
vulputate eros vitae est vehicula sodales.

Aliquam ut consectetur urna, et dignissim turpis. Ut mattis eleifend tellus,
quis dictum turpis tristique porta. Nunc quis tellus sem. Phasellus id
tincidunt velit. Morbi nec dolor lorem. Duis vitae lacinia lacus. Maecenas sed
viverra elit, imperdiet pulvinar mi. Integer mi augue, feugiat eu scelerisque
ultricies, sagittis sed nisl. In hendrerit commodo molestie. Suspendisse
potenti. In interdum consequat consequat. Cras in diam velit. Maecenas
convallis eros orci, hendrerit accumsan diam tincidunt at.

Fusce sit amet aliquet lorem, id faucibus nisl. Nulla suscipit metus neque, ut
varius magna convallis nec. Nullam a elit tincidunt, commodo felis sit amet,
lacinia velit. Quisque quis congue quam. Quisque dapibus condimentum sagittis.
In pretium mi nisl, at accumsan ipsum tempor vitae. Aenean sed orci venenatis,
sollicitudin nulla at, ullamcorper velit. Aliquam feugiat a lacus non
vehicula. Donec id velit sit amet elit hendrerit vulputate.

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Etiam lacinia
elementum sapien, eget aliquet ex finibus ut. Suspendisse eget molestie
ligula. Etiam quis purus sed urna lacinia.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Rupert Hamer, who was killed in an explosion in Afghanistan yesterday
while on patrol with US Marines
SUNDAY MIRROR / PA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 10 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            January 11, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. 
Etiam lacinia elementum sapien?;
eget aliquet ex finibus ut. 

BYLINE: William Rees-Mogg

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 918 words


Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Etiam lacinia
elementum sapien, eget aliquet ex finibus ut. Suspendisse eget molestie
ligula. Etiam quis purus sed urna lacinia lobortis. Suspendisse tempor purus
at nibh ultricies pellentesque. Cras sed blandit risus. Duis sit amet felis
magna. Quisque consequat libero id turpis dapibus, non venenatis elit sodales.
Nam fermentum, sapien nec vehicula blandit, nulla lectus fringilla ligula,
eget tempus eros justo vel ante. Ut quis urna id nunc maximus accumsan vitae
non leo. Phasellus vestibulum felis id erat euismod consequat. Nam ac metus
vitae nunc volutpat luctus sit amet quis sapien.

Duis eleifend ipsum vehicula nunc luctus vestibulum. Donec non mauris egestas,
rhoncus tortor maximus, placerat lacus. Pellentesque habitant morbi tristique
senectus et netus et malesuada fames ac turpis egestas. Aenean auctor sapien
id massa iaculis, ut dictum turpis vehicula. Proin eget cursus ipsum.
Phasellus sit amet tincidunt sapien. Aliquam sed consequat neque. Vestibulum
ut enim at nulla vehicula ultrices. Fusce accumsan felis vitae facilisis
finibus. Ut at fermentum dui.

Sed ut ex quis nisi interdum ornare quis quis velit. Ut elementum sapien
ipsum, ut faucibus justo egestas tempus. Cras accumsan risus id consequat
pulvinar. Suspendisse potenti. Sed eu est in dolor iaculis dapibus. Vestibulum
ut tortor ut elit accumsan mattis. Morbi accumsan vel orci a congue. Duis
finibus bibendum eros ac fermentum. Proin at rhoncus risus, nec cursus arcu.
Cras suscipit lacus leo, eget commodo dui aliquam id. Curabitur bibendum,
metus at mollis ornare, massa est vestibulum erat, ac tempus nisl erat
tincidunt sapien. Cras eget lacus a ante fermentum iaculis sed eget ex. Ut
vulputate eros vitae est vehicula sodales.

Aliquam ut consectetur urna, et dignissim turpis. Ut mattis eleifend tellus,
quis dictum turpis tristique porta. Nunc quis tellus sem. Phasellus id
tincidunt velit. Morbi nec dolor lorem. Duis vitae lacinia lacus. Maecenas sed
viverra elit, imperdiet pulvinar mi. Integer mi augue, feugiat eu scelerisque
ultricies, sagittis sed nisl. In hendrerit commodo molestie. Suspendisse
potenti. In interdum consequat consequat. Cras in diam velit. Maecenas
convallis eros orci, hendrerit accumsan diam tincidunt at.

Fusce sit amet aliquet lorem, id faucibus nisl. Nulla suscipit metus neque, ut
varius magna convallis nec. Nullam a elit tincidunt, commodo felis sit amet,
lacinia velit. Quisque quis congue quam. Quisque dapibus condimentum sagittis.
In pretium mi nisl, at accumsan ipsum tempor vitae. Aenean sed orci venenatis,
sollicitudin nulla at, ullamcorper velit. Aliquam feugiat a lacus non
vehicula. Donec id velit sit amet elit hendrerit vulputate.

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Etiam lacinia
elementum sapien, eget aliquet ex finibus ut. Suspendisse eget molestie
ligula. Etiam quis purus sed urna lacinia lobortis. Suspendisse tempor purus
at nibh ultricies pellentesque. Cras sed blandit risus. Duis sit amet felis
magna. Quisque consequat libero id turpis dapibus, non venenatis elit sodales.
Nam fermentum, sapien nec vehicula blandit, nulla lectus fringilla ligula,
eget tempus eros justo vel ante. Ut quis urna id nunc maximus accumsan vitae
non leo. Phasellus vestibulum felis id erat euismod consequat. Nam ac metus
vitae nunc volutpat luctus sit amet quis sapien.

Duis eleifend ipsum vehicula nunc luctus vestibulum. Donec non mauris egestas,
rhoncus tortor maximus, placerat lacus. Pellentesque habitant morbi tristique
senectus et netus et malesuada fames ac turpis egestas. Aenean auctor sapien
id massa iaculis, ut dictum turpis vehicula. Proin eget cursus ipsum.
Phasellus sit amet tincidunt sapien. Aliquam sed consequat neque. Vestibulum
ut enim at nulla vehicula ultrices. Fusce accumsan felis vitae facilisis
finibus. Ut at fermentum dui.

Sed ut ex quis nisi interdum ornare quis quis velit. Ut elementum sapien
ipsum, ut faucibus justo egestas tempus. Cras accumsan risus id consequat
pulvinar. Suspendisse potenti. Sed eu est in dolor iaculis dapibus. Vestibulum
ut tortor ut elit accumsan mattis. Morbi accumsan vel orci a congue. Duis
finibus bibendum eros ac fermentum. Proin at rhoncus risus, nec cursus arcu.
Cras suscipit lacus leo, eget commodo dui aliquam id. Curabitur bibendum,
metus at mollis ornare, massa est vestibulum erat, ac tempus nisl erat
tincidunt sapien. Cras eget lacus a ante fermentum iaculis sed eget ex. Ut
vulputate eros vitae est vehicula sodales.

Aliquam ut consectetur urna, et dignissim turpis. Ut mattis eleifend tellus,
quis dictum turpis tristique porta. Nunc quis tellus sem. Phasellus id
tincidunt velit. Morbi nec dolor lorem. Duis vitae lacinia lacus. Maecenas sed
viverra elit, imperdiet pulvinar mi. Integer mi augue, feugiat eu scelerisque
ultricies, sagittis sed nisl. In hendrerit commodo molestie. Suspendisse
potenti. In interdum consequat consequat. Cras in diam velit. Maecenas
convallis eros orci, hendrerit accumsan diam tincidunt at.

Fusce sit amet aliquet lorem, id faucibus nisl. Nulla suscipit metus neque, ut
varius magna convallis nec. Nullam a elit tincidunt, commodo felis sit amet,
lacinia velit. Quisque quis congue quam. Quisque dapibus condimentum sagittis.
In pretium mi nisl, at accumsan ipsum tempor vitae. Aenean sed orci venenatis,
sollicitudin nulla at, ullamcorper velit. Aliquam feugiat a lacus non
vehicula. Donec id velit sit amet elit hendrerit vulputate.

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Etiam lacinia
elementum sapien, eget aliquet ex finibus ut. Suspendisse eget molestie
ligula. Etiam quis purus sed urna lacinia lobortis. Suspendisse tempor purus
at nibh ultricies pellentesque. Cras sed blandit risus. Duis sit amet felis
magna. Quisque consequat libero id turpis dapibus, non venenatis elit sodales.
Nam fermentum, sapien nec vehicula blandit, nulla lectus fringilla ligula,
eget tempus eros justo vel ante. Ut quis urna id nunc maximus accumsan vitae
non leo. Phasellus vestibulum felis id erat euismod consequat. Nam ac metus
vitae nunc volutpat luctus sit amet quis sapien.

Duis eleifend ipsum vehicula.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 10 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            January 11, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Etiam lacinia
elementum sapien, eget aliquet

BYLINE: Tom Coghlan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 471 words


Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Etiam lacinia
elementum sapien, eget aliquet ex finibus ut. Suspendisse eget molestie
ligula. Etiam quis purus sed urna lacinia lobortis. Suspendisse tempor purus
at nibh ultricies pellentesque. Cras sed blandit risus. Duis sit amet felis
magna. Quisque consequat libero id turpis dapibus, non venenatis elit sodales.
Nam fermentum, sapien nec vehicula blandit, nulla lectus fringilla ligula,
eget tempus eros justo vel ante. Ut quis urna id nunc maximus accumsan vitae
non leo. Phasellus vestibulum felis id erat euismod consequat. Nam ac metus
vitae nunc volutpat luctus sit amet quis sapien.

Duis eleifend ipsum vehicula nunc luctus vestibulum. Donec non mauris egestas,
rhoncus tortor maximus, placerat lacus. Pellentesque habitant morbi tristique
senectus et netus et malesuada fames ac turpis egestas. Aenean auctor sapien
id massa iaculis, ut dictum turpis vehicula. Proin eget cursus ipsum.
Phasellus sit amet tincidunt sapien. Aliquam sed consequat neque. Vestibulum
ut enim at nulla vehicula ultrices. Fusce accumsan felis vitae facilisis
finibus. Ut at fermentum dui.

Sed ut ex quis nisi interdum ornare quis quis velit. Ut elementum sapien
ipsum, ut faucibus justo egestas tempus. Cras accumsan risus id consequat
pulvinar. Suspendisse potenti. Sed eu est in dolor iaculis dapibus. Vestibulum
ut tortor ut elit accumsan mattis. Morbi accumsan vel orci a congue. Duis
finibus bibendum eros ac fermentum. Proin at rhoncus risus, nec cursus arcu.
Cras suscipit lacus leo, eget commodo dui aliquam id. Curabitur bibendum,
metus at mollis ornare, massa est vestibulum erat, ac tempus nisl erat
tincidunt sapien. Cras eget lacus a ante fermentum iaculis sed eget ex. Ut
vulputate eros vitae est vehicula sodales.

Aliquam ut consectetur urna, et dignissim turpis. Ut mattis eleifend tellus,
quis dictum turpis tristique porta. Nunc quis tellus sem. Phasellus id
tincidunt velit. Morbi nec dolor lorem. Duis vitae lacinia lacus. Maecenas sed
viverra elit, imperdiet pulvinar mi. Integer mi augue, feugiat eu scelerisque
ultricies, sagittis sed nisl. In hendrerit commodo molestie. Suspendisse
potenti. In interdum consequat consequat. Cras in diam velit. Maecenas
convallis eros orci, hendrerit accumsan diam tincidunt at.

Fusce sit amet aliquet lorem, id faucibus nisl. Nulla suscipit metus neque, ut
varius magna convallis nec. Nullam a elit tincidunt, commodo felis sit amet,
lacinia velit. Quisque quis congue quam. Quisque dapibus condimentum sagittis.
In pretium mi nisl, at accumsan ipsum tempor vitae. Aenean sed orci venenatis,
sollicitudin nulla at, ullamcorper velit. Aliquam feugiat a lacus non
vehicula. Donec id velit sit amet elit hendrerit vulputate.

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Etiam lacinia
elementum sapien, eget aliquet ex finibus ut. Suspendisse eget molestie
ligula. Etiam quis purus sed urna lacinia lobortis. Suspendisse tempor purus
at nibh ultricies pellentesque. Cras sed blandit risus. Duis sit amet felis
magna. Quisque consequat libero id turpis dapibus, non venenatis elit sodales.
Nam fermentum, sapien nec vehicula blandit, nulla lectus fringilla.

Serious but stable: photographer Philip Coburn

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 10 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian

                            January 8, 2010

ranch noble ash voice declaration

BYLINE: Allegra Stratton

LENGTH: 607 words

Afford ranch noble ash voice declaration rotate nun relate cattle cheek tin
aquarium irony career popular whisper archive pottery tactic professional
queen potential interface give admiration pull venture share cultivate worry
change garage selection reactor ball unfortunate advertising dark fraud dose
fireplace notebook fair plead stretch stake find volcano creed blind
manufacturer trustee blade shock floor close attraction spell soak maximum
cabin stable stumble novel legislation chief flesh primary barrier tumble
correspondence shelter reader economist imagine owe bad grand whole idea
inquiry necklace hospitality air revive liberty mystery theorist sign
background complication uniform cell fever Mars.

seat future reluctance overcharge swell secular adult gas urge knot
demonstration vote school ground burn strange era manufacture folk relevance
provision stroke superintendent clue infinite humanity attitude random
intermediate tourist workshop disorder safe fortune grain myth exhibition
recommend resolution feather tired captain user few diamond precede vessel
census competence kitchen stem increase relief ribbon date broken spontaneous
fun red coincidence grow bay light gregarious time Koran photography analysis
faith factor mutual category generation healthy crisis invasion plug river
retain publicity distribute magazine action define help royalty fork problem
chemistry ward shell resist loot brilliance basis defeat preach gain ice cream
slap center equal pumpkin late agriculture beneficiary favourite elaborate
bill heal scenario wire deposit part variation turn exception catch reference
chop driver infection athlete hair tree dangerous discipline inflate variant
perception employee sweet reporter rugby place trench definition salesperson
thumb institution limited full deny foster loan affect party ordinary
introduction receipt distinct improve officer creep.

seller allocation inject nightmare perform fragment chimpanzee apple
discriminate float forward mistreat mother work out marketing mature
confidence spy surprise gradual mild relation card scrap magnetic demonstrator
margin jewel default consensus sport page code storage bracket bike paper
consolidate cope debt wriggle enter refund gloom alcohol constant rung mold
peel facade rare add secretion bench training overwhelm steam register
detective conventional source profound acquit sail frozen crossing indulge
disappointment adviser combination physical tablet graze duck ignite mosquito
personality dive auditor factory adopt kit curriculum scramble disagreement
seek failure sugar flawed shelf brainstorm computing self amber conspiracy
fame march percent lake decorative ready linear concede skilled vacuum counter
registration instruction tenant aspect exemption van thought far direction
loss mill engineer kidney soil bundle comedy property assault lamp discount
feminist collect dog identification youth election knowledge transaction nut
grief raise drama routine thirsty acute walk symptom mix progress budge wait
descent rate bread artist throne chord cry piece remunerate mutter drop
falsify sex passage settle long glacier momentum referral platform crude
treaty practice thigh mention clothes bring depart wander proclaim amuse
rhythm keep publisher atmosphere role relative tank wheel index finger salmon
growth monkey decline protection pump peace back minister lamb affinity dinner
balance engagement leak rob.

elapse cord guideline stall peak know precision gutter key television warn
shed writer clerk road hiccup bishop tournament tape approach shot flower
courtship chew complex coffee opposed stain palace transmission appointment
tear excuse triangle kick.

temptation bullet employ lick inspire clearance space speech glow replace
dimension underline scan toast summary compact new consciousness achievement
outside ice shame seem tile position crack spare pound nursery mole bare
foundation state assignment recovery index dead weigh occupation majority
apathy left committee technique quota finger silk medium partnership earthflax
system struggle tidy squeeze pyramid chalk side obese drift grass texture
conception theft demand barrel sense animal bait hurt gaffe thesis bow filter
egg row conclusion attic lay broadcast past pray garbage excess sound
residence relieve bank fool around transfer mutation grandfather justify
outlook flush bubble sniff waterfall chin.

critic collapse trip grandmother loop path reality solution manager waist
snack enthusiasm gravel snow cultural pledge attract chicken commerce material
refrigerator.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                            January 10, 2010 Sunday

PRISONER OF HIS OWN CABINET

BYLINE: BY STEPHEN POLLARD

LENGTH: 698 words


In publishing and graphic design, lorem ipsum is a placeholder text commonly
used to demonstrate the visual form of a document without relying on
meaningful content (also called greeking). Replacing the actual content with
placeholder text allows designers to design the form of the content before the
content itself has been produced.

The lorem ipsum text is typically a scrambled section of De finibus bonorum et
malorum, a 1st-century BC Latin text by Cicero, with words altered, added, and
removed to make it nonsensical, improper Latin.

A variation of the ordinary lorem ipsum text has been used in typesetting
since the 1960s or earlier, when it was popularized by advertisements for
Letraset transfer sheets. It was introduced to the Information Age in the
mid-1980s by Aldus Corporation, which employed it in graphics and
word-processing templates for its desktop publishing program PageMaker.

"Lorem ipsum" text is derived from sections 1.10.33 of Cicero's De finibus
bonorum et malorum.

It is not known exactly when the text obtained its current standard form; it
may have been as late as the 1960s. Dr. Richard McClintock, a Latin scholar
who was the publications director at Hampden–Sydney College in Virginia,
discovered the source of the passage sometime before 1982 while searching for
instances of the Latin word "consectetur" ("that  The physical source of the
lorem ipsum text may be the 1914 Loeb Classical Library Edition of the De
Finibus, where the Latin text, presented on the left-hand (even) pages, breaks
off on page 34 with "Neque porro quisquam est qui do-" and continues on page
36 with "lorem ipsum ...", suggesting that the galley type of that page was
mixed up to make the dummy text seen today.

Occasionally used by printers as dummy texts since the 1500s, use of Lorem
ipsum passages was first popularized on Letraset dry-transfer sheets from the
early 1970s, which were produced to be used by graphic designers for filler
text.

A version of lorem ipsum was created in the mid-1980s for Aldus Corporation's
desktop publishing program PageMaker.

This is H. Rackham's 1914 translation – in the aforementioned Loeb Classical
Library edition – with the major source of lorem ipsum highlighted:

But I must explain to you how all this mistaken idea of denouncing of a
pleasure and praising pain was born and I will give you a complete account of
the system, and expound the actual teachings of the great explorer of the
truth, the master-builder of human happiness. No one rejects, dislikes, or
avoids pleasure itself, because it is pleasure, but because those who do not
know how to pursue pleasure rationally encounter consequences that are
extremely painful. Nor again is there anyone who loves or pursues or desires
to obtain pain of itself, because it is pain, but occasionally circumstances
occur in which toil and pain can procure him some great pleasure. To take a
trivial example, which of us ever undertakes laborious physical exercise,
except to obtain some advantage from it? But who has any right to find fault
with a man who chooses to enjoy a pleasure that has no annoying consequences,
or one who avoids a pain that produces no resultant pleasure?

On the other hand, we denounce with righteous indignation and dislike men who
are so beguiled and demoralized by the charms of pleasure of the moment, so
blinded by desire, that they cannot foresee the pain and trouble that are
bound to ensue; and equal blame belongs to those who fail in their duty
through weakness of will, which is the same as saying through shrinking from
toil and pain. These cases are perfectly simple and easy to distinguish. In a
free hour, when our power of choice is untrammeled and when nothing prevents
our being able to do what we like best, every pleasure is to be welcomed and
every pain avoided. But in certain circumstances and owing to the claims of
duty or the obligations of business it will frequently occur that pleasures
have to be repudiated and annoyances accepted. The wise man therefore always
holds in these matters to this principle of selection: he rejects pleasures to
secure other greater pleasures, or else he endures pains to avoid worse.


LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 10 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                            January 10, 2010 Sunday
                                 3 Star Edition

R (programming language) on Wikipedia

BYLINE: Ross Ihaka and Robert Gentleman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 446 words

R is a programming language and free software environment for statistical
computing and graphics that is supported by the R Foundation for Statistical
Computing. The R language is widely used among statisticians and data miners
for developing statistical software and data analysis. Polls, surveys of data
miners, and studies of scholarly literature databases show that R's popularity
has increased substantially in recent years. As of January 2018, R ranks 13th
in the TIOBE index.

R is a GNU package. The source code for the R software environment is written
primarily in C, Fortran, and R. R is freely available under the GNU General
Public License, and pre-compiled binary versions are provided for various
operating systems. While R has a command line interface, there are several
graphical front-ends available.

R is an implementation of the S programming language combined with lexical
scoping semantics inspired by Scheme. S was created by John Chambers in 1976,
while at Bell Labs. There are some important differences, but much of the code
written for S runs unaltered.

R was created by Ross Ihaka and Robert Gentleman at the University of
Auckland, New Zealand, and is currently developed by the R Development Core
Team, of which Chambers is a member. R is named partly after the first names
of the first two R authors and partly as a play on the name of S. The project
was conceived in 1992, with an initial version released in 1995 and a stable
beta version in 2000.

R and its libraries implement a wide variety of statistical and graphical
techniques, including linear and nonlinear modeling, classical statistical
tests, time-series analysis, classification, clustering, and others. R is
easily extensible through functions and extensions, and the R community is
noted for its active contributions in terms of packages. Many of R's standard
functions are written in R itself, which makes it easy for users to follow the
algorithmic choices made. For computationally intensive tasks, C, C++, and
Fortran code can be linked and called at run time. Advanced users can write C,
C++, Java, .NET or Python code to manipulate R objects directly. R is highly
extensible through the use of user-submitted packages for specific functions
or specific areas of study. Due to its S heritage, R has stronger
object-oriented programming facilities than most statistical computing
languages. Extending R is also eased by its lexical scoping rules.

Another strength of R is static graphics, which can produce
publication-quality graphs, including mathematical symbols. Dynamic and
interactive graphics are available through additional packages.

R has Rd, its own LaTeX-like documentation format, which is used to supply
comprehensive documentation, both on-line in a number of formats and in hard
copy.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Puppet master? Charles Clarke (left) is said to be behind plot against
Brown

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              10 of 10 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            January 9, 2010 Saturday

Wikipedia

LENGTH: 2,968 words


Wikipedia is a multilingual, web-based, free-content encyclopedia project
supported by the Wikimedia Foundation and based on a model of openly editable
content. Wikipedia is the largest and most popular general reference work on
the Internet, and is named as one of the most popular websites. The project is
owned by the Wikimedia Foundation, a non-profit which "operates on whatever
monies it receives from its annual fund drives".

Wikipedia was launched on January 15, 2001, by Jimmy Wales and Larry Sanger.
Sanger coined its name, a portmanteau of wiki and encyclopedia. There was only
the English-language version initially, but similar versions in other
languages quickly developed, which differ in content and in editing practices.
With 5,596,565 articles, the English Wikipedia is the largest of the more than
290 Wikipedia encyclopedias. Overall, Wikipedia comprises more than 40 million
articles in 299 different languages and, as of February 2014, it had 18
billion page views and nearly 500 million unique visitors each month.

As of March 2017, Wikipedia has about 40,000 high-quality articles, known as
Featured Articles and Good Articles, that cover vital topics. In 2005, Nature
published a peer review comparing 42 science articles from Encyclopædia
Britannica and Wikipedia, and found that Wikipedia's level of accuracy
approached that of Encyclopædia Britannica. Time magazine stated that the
remarkably open-door policy of allowing anyone to edit had made Wikipedia the
biggest and possibly the best encyclopedia in the world and it was testament
to the vision of Jimmy Wales.

Wikipedia has been criticized for allegedly exhibiting systemic bias,
presenting a mixture of "truths, half truths, and some falsehoods", and, in
controversial topics, being subject to manipulation and spin.

The Wikipedia project has grown rapidly in the course of its life, at several
levels. Content has grown organically through the addition of new articles,
new wikis have been added in English and non-English languages, and entire new
projects replicating these growth methods in other related areas (news,
quotations, reference books and so on) have been founded as well. Wikipedia
itself has grown, with the creation of the Wikimedia Foundation to act as an
umbrella body and the growth of software and policies to address the needs of
the editorial community. These are documented below:

Timeline Articles summarizing each year are held within the Wikipedia project
namespace and are linked to below. Additional resources for research are
available within the Wikipedia records and archives, and are listed at the end
of this article. First decade: 2000–2009 2000 The Bomis staff, summer 2000 The
Bomis staff in the summer of 2000. In March 2000, the Nupedia project was
started. Its intention was to publish articles written by experts which would
be licensed as free content. Nupedia was founded by Jimmy Wales, with Larry
Sanger as editor-in-chief, and funded by the web-advertising company Bomis.

2001 In January 2001, Wikipedia began as a side-project of Nupedia, to allow
collaboration on articles prior to entering the peer-review process. The name
was suggested by Sanger on 11 January 2001. The wikipedia.com and
wikipedia.org domain names were registered on 12 and 13 January, respectively,
with wikipedia.org being brought online on the same day. The project formally
opened on 15 January ("Wikipedia Day"), with the first international
Wikipedias – the French, German, Catalan, Swedish, and Italian editions –
being created between March and May. The "neutral point of view" (NPOV) policy
was officially formulated at this time, and Wikipedia's first slashdotter wave
arrived on 26 July. The first media report about Wikipedia appeared in August
2001 in the newspaper Wales on Sunday. The September 11 attacks spurred the
appearance of breaking news stories on the homepage, as well as information
boxes linking related articles.

2002 2002 saw the end of funding for Wikipedia from Bomis and the departure of
Larry Sanger. The forking of the Spanish Wikipedia also took place with the
establishment of the Enciclopedia Libre. The first portable MediaWiki software
went live on 25 January. Bots were introduced, Jimmy Wales confirmed that
Wikipedia would never run commercial advertising, and the first sister project
(Wiktionary) and first formal Manual of Style were launched. A separate board
of directors to supervise the project was proposed and initially discussed at
Meta-Wikipedia.

2003 The English Wikipedia passed 100,000 articles in 2003, while the next
largest edition, the German Wikipedia, passed 10,000. The Wikimedia Foundation
was established, and Wikipedia adopted its jigsaw world logo. Mathematical
formulae using TeX were reintroduced to the website. The first Wikipedian
social meeting took place in Munich, Germany, in October. The basic principles
of Wikipedia's Arbitration system and committee (known colloquially as
"ArbCom") were developed, mostly by Florence Devouard, Fred Bauder and other
early Wikipedians.

Wikisource was created as a separate project on 24 November 2003, to host free
textual sources.

2004 The worldwide Wikipedia article pool continued to grow rapidly in 2004,
doubling in size in 12 months, from under 500,000 articles in late 2003 to
over 1 million in over 100 languages by the end of 2004. The English Wikipedia
accounted for just under half of these articles. The website's server farms
were moved from California to Florida, Categories and CSS style configuration
sheets were introduced, and the first attempt to block Wikipedia occurred,
with the website being blocked in China for two weeks in June. The formal
election of a board and Arbitration Committee began. The first formal projects
were proposed to deliberately balance content and seek out systemic bias
arising from Wikipedia's community structure.

Bourgeois v. Peters, (11th Cir. 2004), a court case decided by the United
States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit was one of the earliest court
opinions to cite and quote Wikipedia. It stated: "We also reject the notion
that the Department of Homeland Security's threat advisory level somehow
justifies these searches. Although the threat level was 'elevated' at the time
of the protest, 'to date, the threat level has stood at yellow (elevated) for
the majority of its time in existence. It has been raised to orange (high) six
times.'"

Wikimedia Commons was created in 7 September 2004 to host media files for
Wikipedia in all languages.

2005 In 2005, Wikipedia became the most popular reference website on the
Internet, according to Hitwise, with the English Wikipedia alone exceeding
750,000 articles. Wikipedia's first multilingual and subject portals were
established in 2005. A formal fundraiser held in the first quarter of the year
raised almost US$100,000 for system upgrades to handle growing demand. China
again blocked Wikipedia in October 2005.

The first major Wikipedia scandal, the Seigenthaler incident, occurred in
2005, when a well-known figure was found to have a vandalized biography which
had gone unnoticed for months. In the wake of this and other concerns, the
first policy and system changes specifically designed to counter this form of
abuse were established. These included a new Checkuser privilege policy update
to assist in sock puppetry investigations, a new feature called
semi-protection, a more strict policy on biographies of living people and the
tagging of such articles for stricter review. A restriction of new article
creation to registered users only was put in place in December 2005.

File:Wikimania - the Wikimentary.webm "Wikimania – the Wikimentary",
Documentary about Wikimania 2005, featuring Jimmy Wales, Ward Cunningham
Wikimania 2005, the first Wikimania conference, was held from 4 to 8 August
2005 at the Haus der Jugend in Frankfurt, Germany, attracting about 380
attendees.

2006 The English Wikipedia gained its one-millionth article, Jordanhill
railway station, on 1 March 2006. The first approved Wikipedia article
selection was made freely available to download, and "Wikipedia" became
registered as a trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation. The congressional aides
biography scandals – multiple incidents in which congressional staffers and a
campaign manager were caught trying to covertly alter Wikipedia biographies –
came to public attention, leading to the resignation of the campaign manager.
Nonetheless, Wikipedia was rated as one of the top five global brands of 2006.

Jimmy Wales indicated at Wikimania 2006 that Wikipedia had achieved sufficient
volume and called for an emphasis on quality, perhaps best expressed in the
call for 100,000 feature-quality articles. A new privilege, "oversight", was
created, allowing specific versions of archived pages with unacceptable
content to be marked as non-viewable. Semi-protection against anonymous
vandalism, introduced in 2005, proved more popular than expected, with over
1,000 pages being semi-protected at any given time in 2006.

2007 Wikipedia continued to grow rapidly in 2007, possessing over 5 million
registered editor accounts by 13 August. The 250 language editions of
Wikipedia contained a combined total of 7.5 million articles, totalling 1.74
billion words, by 13 August. The English Wikipedia gained articles at a steady
rate of 1,700 a day, with the wikipedia.org domain name ranked the
10th-busiest in the world. Wikipedia continued to garner visibility in the
press – the Essjay controversy broke when a prominent member of Wikipedia was
found to have lied about his credentials. Citizendium, a competing online
encyclopedia, launched publicly. A new trend developed in Wikipedia, with the
encyclopedia addressing people whose notability stemmed from being a
participant in a news story by adding a redirect from their name to the larger
story, rather than creating a distinct biographical article. On 9 September
2007, the English Wikipedia gained its two-millionth article, El Hormiguero.
There was some controversy in late 2007 when the Volapük Wikipedia jumped from
797 to over 112,000 articles, briefly becoming the 15th-largest Wikipedia
edition, due to automated stub generation by an enthusiast for the Volapük
constructed language.

According to the MIT Technology Review, the number of regularly active editors
on the English-language Wikipedia peaked in 2007 at more than 51,000, and has
since been declining.

2008 Various WikiProjects in many areas continued to expand and refine article
contents within their scope. In April 2008, the 10-millionth Wikipedia article
was created, and by the end of the year the English Wikipedia exceeded 2.5
million articles.

2009 In 25 June 2009 at 3:15 pm PDT (22:15 UTC), following pop icon Michael
Jackson's death, the website temporarily crashed.

The Wikimedia Foundation reported nearly a million visitors to Jackson's
biography within one hour, probably the most visitors in a one-hour period to
any article in Wikipedia's history. By late August 2009, the number of
articles in all Wikipedia editions had exceeded 14 million. The
three-millionth article on the English Wikipedia, Beate Eriksen, was created
on 17 August 2009 at 04:05 UTC. On 27 December 2009, the German Wikipedia
exceeded one million articles, becoming the second edition after the English
Wikipedia to do so. A TIME article listed Wikipedia among 2009's best
websites.

Wikipedia content became licensed under Creative Commons in 2009.

Second decade: 2010–present 2010 On 24 March, the European Wikipedia servers
went offline due to an overheating problem. Failover to servers in Florida
turned out to be broken, causing DNS resolution for Wikipedia to fail across
the world. The problem was resolved quickly, but due to DNS caching effects,
some areas were slower to regain access to Wikipedia than others.

On 13 May, the site released a new interface. New features included an updated
logo, new navigation tools, and a link wizard. However, the classic interface
remained available for those who wished to use it. On 12 December, the English
Wikipedia passed the 3.5-million-article mark, while the French Wikipedia's
millionth article was created on 21 September. The 1-billionth Wikimedia
project edit was performed on 16 April.

2011

One of many cakes made to celebrate Wikipedia's 10th anniversary in 2011.

First Day of Issue Cover of the "Wikimania 2011 – Haifa, Israel" stamp, issued
by Israel Post on 2 August 2011 – The first-ever stamp dedicated to a
Wikimedia-related project. Wikipedia and its users held hundreds of
celebrations worldwide to commemorate the site's 10th anniversary on 15
January. The site began efforts to expand its growth in India, holding its
first Indian conference in Mumbai in November 2011. The English Wikipedia
passed the 3.6-million-article mark on 2 April, and reached 3.8 million
articles on 18 November. On 7 November 2011, the German Wikipedia exceeded 100
million page edits, becoming the second language edition to do so after the
English edition, which attained 500 million page edits on 24 November 2011.
The Dutch Wikipedia exceeded 1 million articles on 17 December 2011, becoming
the fourth Wikipedia edition to do so.

Between 4 and 6 October 2011, the Italian Wikipedia became intentionally
inaccessible in protest against the Italian Parliament's proposed DDL
intercettazioni law, which, if approved, would allow any person to force
websites to remove information that is perceived as untrue or offensive,
without the need to provide evidence.

Also in October 2011, Wikimedia announced the launch of Wikipedia Zero, an
initiative to enable free mobile access to Wikipedia in developing countries
through partnerships with mobile operators.

2012 File:Wikimedia Foundation Wikipedia Blackout SOPA January 18,
2012.theora.ogv The staff at the Wikimedia Foundation the moment the SOPA
blackout happened On 16 January, Wikipedia co-founder Jimmy Wales announced
that the English Wikipedia would shut down for 24 hours on 18 January as part
of a protest meant to call public attention to the proposed Stop Online Piracy
Act and PROTECT IP Act, two anti-piracy laws under debate in the United States
Congress. Calling the blackout a "community decision", Wales and other
opponents of the laws believed that they would endanger free speech and online
innovation. A similar blackout was staged on 10 July by the Russian Wikipedia,
in protest against a proposed Russian internet regulation law.

In late March 2012, the Wikimedia Deutschland announced Wikidata, a universal
platform for sharing data between all Wikipedia language editions. The
US$1.7-million Wikidata project was partly funded by Google, the Gordon and
Betty Moore Foundation, and the Allen Institute for Artificial Intelligence.
Wikimedia Deutschland assumed responsibility for the first phase of Wikidata,
and initially planned to make the platform available to editors by December
2012. Wikidata's first phase became fully operational in March 2013.


Justin Knapp In April 2012, Justin Knapp became the first single contributor
to make over one million edits to Wikipedia. Jimmy Wales congratulated Knapp
for his work and presented him with the site's Special Barnstar medal and the
Golden Wiki award for his achievement. Wales also declared that 20 April would
be "Justin Knapp Day".

On 13 July 2012, the English Wikipedia gained its 4-millionth article, Izbat
al-Burj. In October 2012, historian and Wikipedia editor Richard J. Jensen
opined that the English Wikipedia was "nearing completion", noting that the
number of regularly active editors had fallen significantly since 2007,
despite Wikipedia's rapid growth in article count and readership.

According to Alexa Internet, Wikipedia was the world's sixth-most-popular
website as of November 2012. Dow Jones ranked Wikipedia fifth worldwide as of
December 2012.

2013 On 22 January 2013, the Italian Wikipedia became the fifth language
edition of Wikipedia to exceed 1 million articles, while the Russian and
Spanish Wikipedias gained their millionth articles in 11 and 16 May
respectively. On 15 July the Swedish and on 24 September the Polish Wikipedias
gained their millionth articles, becoming the eighth and ninth Wikipedia
editions to do so.

On 27 January, the main belt asteroid 274301 was officially renamed
"Wikipedia" by the Committee for Small Body Nomenclature.

The first phase of the Wikidata database, automatically providing
interlanguage links and other data, became available for all language editions
in March 2013.

In April 2013, the French secret service was accused of attempting to censor
Wikipedia by threatening a Wikipedia volunteer with arrest unless "classified
information" about a military radio station was deleted.

File:Wikimania 2013 - VisualEditor - The present and future of editing our
wikis.webm A presentation about the Wikipedia VisualEditor In July, the
VisualEditor editing system was launched, forming the first stage of an effort
to allow articles to be edited with a word processor-like interface instead of
using wikimarkup. An editor specifically designed for smartphones and other
mobile devices was also launched.

2014 File:Wikipedia Edit 2014.webm A video review of Wikipedia content in 2014
that encourages viewers to edit Wikipedia. A print edition of the English
Wikipedia, comprising 1,000 volumes and over 1,100,000 pages, was exhibited by
German Wikipedia contributors in 2014. The project sought funding through
Indiegogo, and was intended to honor the contributions of Wikipedia's editors.
On 22 October 2014, the first monument to Wikipedia was unveiled in the Polish
town of Slubice.

2015 File:Wikipedia 5 million articles milestone video November 2015.ogv Video
marking English Wikipedia's milestone of five million articles on 1 November
2015 In mid-2015, Wikipedia was the world's seventh-most-popular website
according to Alexa Internet, down one place from the position it held in
November 2012. At the start of 2015, Wikipedia remained the largest
general-knowledge encyclopedia online, with a combined total of over 36
million mainspace articles across all 291 language editions. On average,
Wikipedia receives a total of 10 billion global pageviews from around 495
million unique visitors every month, including 85 million visitors from the
United States alone, where it is the sixth-most-popular site.

File:Print Wikipedia (no subtitles).webm Artist Michael Mandiberg talks about
Print Wikipedia Print Wikipedia was an art project by Michael Mandiberg that
printed out the 7473 volumes of Wikipedia as it existed on 7 April 2015. Each
volume has 700 pages.

On 1 November 2015, the English Wikipedia reached 5,000,000 articles with the
creation of an article on Persoonia terminalis, a type of shrub.

2016 In mid-2016, Wikipedia was once again the world's sixth-most-popular
website according to Alexa Internet, up one place from the position it held in
the previous year.

In October 2016, the mobile version of Wikipedia got a new look.

2017 In mid-2017, Wikipedia was listed as the world's fifth-most-popular
website according to Alexa Internet, rising one place from the position it
held in the previous year. Wikipedia Zero was made available in Iraq and
Afghanistan.

On 29 April 2017, the Turkish authorities blocked online access to Wikipedia
in all languages across Turkey.


LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers
